satellite.statement.while (condition) -- repeat a block while a bool holds

  satellite.statement.while (going)
  {
      ...
  }

  The condition is tested BEFORE the first pass, so a condition that starts
  false runs the body zero times, and it is re-read at the top of every pass
  after that. There is no do-while, and which refusal you get depends on
  where you put the brace: satellite.statement.do with the brace on the next
  line is "satellite.statement.do is a module path, not a value", while the
  C spelling satellite.statement.do { ... } is "unexpected Punct({) after
  the end of a statement".

  The parentheses and the braces are both required -- design 5 spells the
  form while_stmt := stmt_kw "while" "(" expression ")" block. Dropping the
  parentheses is "expected '(' after satellite.statement.while". A body of
  one statement still gets braces; without them the error is "expected '{'
  to open a block". An empty body is legal. The body's statements are
  newline terminated like every other statement, so two on one line is
  "unexpected Word(satellite) after the end of a statement" and a ';'
  between them is "unexpected Punct(;) after the end of a statement". Spaces
  around the dots are free -- satellite . statement . while parses the same
  -- and the '{' may sit on the header's line or on the next one.

  THE CONDITION MUST BE A satellite.variable.bool. There is no truthiness.
  A number is refused with "condition must be a satellite.variable.bool,
  got satellite.variable.number", a string with "got
  satellite.variable.string", and the runtime value satellite with "got
  nil". Empty parentheses are refused with "expected an expression, found
  Punct())": satellite.statement.else accepts both () and no parentheses at
  all, but a while has something to say inside them. The condition is an
  EXPRESSION and not a statement, so C's while ((line = next()) != nil)
  does not parse -- "expected ')' to close the group" -- and there is no
  way to assign inside a condition.

  THE BODY IS ITS OWN SCOPE, which is what the flag idiom below is usually
  got wrong on. A satellite.variable declared in the body is FRESH ON EVERY
  PASS, so a counter declared there reads 1 forever, and it does not exist
  after the loop ("unknown variable in capsule"). The condition is read in
  the ENCLOSING scope, so a flag declared inside the body it controls is
  "unknown variable in capsule" at the header. Every flag a loop tests has
  to be declared BEFORE the loop.

  THERE IS NO break AND NO continue. Not under any spelling:

      satellite.statement.break     -> is a module path, not a value
      satellite.statement.break()   -> no such module function
      break                         -> unknown variable in capsule

  continue answers the same three ways. That is the largest gap the language
  still has rather than an oversight. Design 15 lists what writing the
  stage-0 lexer in satellite found missing, in order of how much it hurt:
  break and continue are item 2, behind file I/O, which has since been
  built -- so they are first among what is still missing, which is the sense
  in which design 17 cites them when it holds bytecode ids 18-20 open
  against the day they exist. Today a loop is left by making its condition
  false, which in real code means a flag:

      satellite.container.list<satellite.variable.number> l
      l.append(4)
      l.append(8)
      l.append(15)
      l.append(16)
      satellite.variable.bool searching = satellite.bool.true
      satellite.variable.number i = 0
      satellite.variable.number found = -1
      satellite.statement.while (searching)
      {
          satellite.statement.if (i >= l.length())
          {
              searching = satellite.bool.false
          }
          satellite.statement.else
          {
              satellite.statement.if (l[i] == 15)
              {
                  found = i
                  searching = satellite.bool.false
              }
              satellite.statement.else
              {
                  i = i + 1
              }
          }
      }

  found is 2. Read what the flag costs, because that is the honest part. The
  increment moved into an else, since there is no continue to skip past it.
  The two ways out became two branches of one if, since there is no break to
  take either. All three of searching, i and found had to be declared
  outside the loop, because the body's scope does not survive a pass. A
  nested loop needs a flag EACH: the inner one clears both, and the outer
  one re-checks its own before it steps, or it steps once too often. Design
  15's own phrasing is "five loops, five going flags".

  satellite.return inside the body does leave the loop -- and the capsule
  with it. It is the one early exit the language has and it is not a break:
  it ends the call. In a TOP-LEVEL while there is no call to end, so it ends
  the whole run instead: satellite.main is never entered, nothing is
  printed about it, and the exit status is 0. A runtime error in the body
  also stops the loop, and the program, with exit status 1.

  THERE IS NO ITERATION GUARD. satellite.library.system.max_depth counts
  NESTING, not passes: the counter rises when a statement or a call is
  entered and falls when it finishes, so one pass of a loop leaves it where
  it started. 100000 passes of a while loop finish in about 0.05 s, while
  runaway recursion stops with "expression nests deeper than
  satellite.library.system.max_depth (2000)". The guard is for recursion,
  and it will not fire for a loop however long the loop runs.

  That 2000 is a default and not a constant. It is clamped to a ceiling
  derived from the stack the process actually has, so the same recursion
  under ulimit -s 1024 stops at "(375)". The knob is not readable as a
  variable -- displaying satellite.library.system.max_depth is "no such
  variable" -- and assigning it from inside a program is accepted silently
  and changes nothing, because the evaluator reads it once before the first
  statement runs.

  So a while whose condition never goes false runs until something outside
  the program stops it. Nothing times out, no message is issued, and no
  limit is reached. Output already displayed is flushed as it goes, so a
  spinning loop that displays keeps printing. Ctrl-C ends it: there is no
  signal handler, the process dies the default way, and the shell reports
  130.

  Nesting IS bounded, by the resolver rather than by the run, and the
  resolver's 2000 is a fixed constant. Each while costs two of those levels
  and the enclosing capsule body costs one, so 999 nested while statements
  around an EMPTY body run and 1000 is refused. Anything real innermost
  costs more and lowers the ceiling: with one satellite.console.display
  call inside, 997 run and 998 is refused. The refusal comes before anything
  executes, and it comes twice -- "expression nests deeper than the resolver
  can walk (2000)" first, for the innermost condition, then "statements nest
  deeper than the resolver can walk (2000)" for its block.

  .and() IS NOT SHORT-CIRCUIT, and while conditions are where that bites.
  There is no && and no || in the language -- (i < 10 && i != 3) is
  "expected ')' after the condition" -- so a compound test is written
  (a).and(b), and .and is an ordinary method call whose argument is
  evaluated before the call happens. The C idiom
  (i < l.length()).and(l[i] != 15) therefore indexes at i FIRST and dies
  with "index 2 is outside a list of length 2" on the very pass that should
  have ended the loop. Nest an if inside the body instead, as the search
  above does.

  A while at the top level of a file, outside any capsule, is legal, and it
  runs before satellite.main does -- with the satellite.return trap above.

  A loop with a counter is usually satellite.statement.for, which carries
  the init, the test and the step in one header and so cannot lose the step
  in an else the way the flag idiom can. satellite.statement.for (;;) is the
  infinite loop, and it has no break either.