                            S A T E L L I T E
                    for AlmaLinux 10 -- how to install it


You need to do two things. Both of them are typing one line.


1.  Open a terminal.

    Press the Super key (the one with the Windows or the diamond on it),
    type the word    terminal    and press Enter.


2.  Type this, and press Enter:

        cd ~/Downloads/satellite-*-almalinux10-x86_64 && ./install-satellite.sh

    If you put this folder somewhere other than Downloads, change that part
    to wherever it is. If you are not sure, drag the folder onto the
    terminal window after typing    cd    and a space -- that types the
    path for you.


That is the whole installation.

It may ask you once for your password. That is the only step that needs it:
the satellite window uses some system libraries, and if your computer does not
already have them, the installer asks dnf -- AlmaLinux's software installer --
to fetch them. It shows you the exact command before it runs it. If you would
rather it did not, add  --no-deps  to the end of the line in step 2.

Everything else it writes goes inside your own home folder.

When it finishes it prints where everything went and what to try first.


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

ONE THING TO KNOW ABOUT THE TERMINAL

The installer adds a few lines to your  ~/.bashrc  file so that the words
satl  and  satl-term  work in any terminal window. It puts them between two
markers that say  satellite  so you can see exactly what it added, and it
saves your original file as  ~/.bashrc.satellite-backup  first.

A terminal window that was ALREADY OPEN when you installed will not know
about this yet. Open a new one.

(Clicking the icon works straight away either way -- the icon does not go
through the terminal.)


-------------------------------------------------------------------------------

WHAT YOU JUST INSTALLED

    satl            the satellite language itself. Type  satl  in a terminal
                    and it gives you a prompt to type programs at.

    satl-term       satellite in its own window, with its own icon. This is
                    the one that appears in your applications grid: press
                    Super and start typing  satellite  and it will be there.

    the .satl file type
                    satellite programs get their own icon, and double-clicking
                    one opens it.

    example programs
                    the installer prints where these are. hello_world.satl is
                    the place to start.


IF THE ICON IS NOT IN YOUR APPLICATIONS GRID

    Log out and log back in, once. A desktop reads its list of applications
    when the session starts, and yours started before satellite was there.


IF YOU WANT IT GONE AGAIN

    ./install-satellite.sh --uninstall

    It removes the programs, the icons, the file type, and the lines it added
    to your ~/.bashrc. It leaves the system libraries alone -- other programs
    on your computer use those too.


IF YOU WANT TO SEE WHAT IT WOULD DO WITHOUT DOING IT

    ./install-satellite.sh -n

    That prints every single command, indented, and runs none of them.
