
Satellite Orbit is the search power built into the satellite programming language.

Satellite Orbit works in phases, it begins by directly attempting to find the 
result of the search. Then it tries to guess the result, building up on the direct search,
and adding to the end result. Then it tries to predict the result, by logic and force,
to attempt to render a correct result. Then it tries to index, does it already know
the result? Has this search already exhausted everything? What do we know about this
user/this machine/the code it runs. Indexing. lastly the search result contains the
results of the frequency phase, where we look at the likelihood of what we have made
from the previous phases, and the likelihood of the result being just something else.

At the end of the day. I have a list. the list is {TRUE, TRUE, FASLSE, TRUE, FALSE, TRUE, TRUE}
and I am looking for {TRUE, TRUE} the result could return that the correct answer is {TRUE, FALSE}
after all of these phases have been processed through. 

So we have to build this orbit engine and the search power.

So right away, we have the satellite.help() command, and it needs to be searchable.
So we have a field of information that we can use to determine how effective our 
search power will be... See how valuable those phases would be when applied just 
over the help system? Now if that power were in the hands of the user of satellite,
which is just me right now, and that user could build the ai with the search power,
because all I ever do when I build AI is search for stuff, search for this word,
search for these two words, search for this, if I had a comprehensive search system,
modeled after the same AI, then it would be like in the bag, dude.

So again it is: Direct, Guessing, Predicting (logic/force) we try to force the result,
then it is indexing, looking through memory, then it is finally frequency and that is
the seaRCH pipeline built for the AI.

So we are building an AI to build an AI.

This is about all I have mapped out on "orbit", and somehow we have to build all of
this... it's daunting! But i'll try my hardest...

we are building the "ego" of the AI, the very core of it.

So you can constrast this with the old search plan that built a search tool that
just had like a single path, I don't like that plan.

